# Jetpack Compose
- [How Compose & Recompose works](https://medium.com/androiddevelopers/under-the-hood-of-jetpack-compose-part-2-of-2-37b2c20c6cdd)
- **What is Jetpack Compose ?**
- Jetpack Compose is a modern toolkit for building native Android UI.
- Jetpack Compose simplifies and accelerates UI development on Android with less code, powerful tools, and intuitive Kotlin APIs.
- Jetpack Compose is totally declarative programming, which means you can describe your user
  interface by invoking a set of composable.
- For past ten years we have been using a traditional way of imperative UI design.

## Advantages of Jetpack Compose

- It is very fast and offers a smooth performance.
- It’s simple to learn.
- It is possible to interoperate with an imperative approach.
- Offers a better way to implement loose coupling principles.
- It is 100% made in Kotlin which makes it a modern approach in Android development.

## What Problem Jetpack Compose solves ?

- Separation Of Concerns
- Reduced Coupling
- Cohesion
- kotlin and xml different language to draw and map UI
- All UI logic inside Composable FUnction
- Declarative

# Compose Components

- @Composable
- @Preview
- Text
- TextField
- Button
- Image
- Row
- Column
- Card

## Composable Function
- It's same as any function in programming. But we need to annotate with @Composable annotation.
- Syntax:
```
@Composable
fun MethodName(parameter: String) {
    // your content
}
```
- Example
```
@Composable
fun Greeting(name: String) {
    Text(text = "Hello $name!")
}
```
## HelloWorld using Jetpack Compose
```
class MainActivity : ComponentActivity() {
    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)
        setContent {
            Greeting("World")
        }
    }
}
@Composable
fun Greeting(name: String) {
    Text(text = "Hello $name!")
}
```
## Dependencies
```
And also you need to add some dependencies for Jetpack Compose. 

//compose_version = '1.0.2'
implementation 'androidx.activity:activity-compose:1.3.0-alpha06'
implementation "androidx.compose.ui:ui:$compose_version"
implementation "androidx.compose.material:material:$compose_version"
implementation "androidx.compose.ui:ui-tooling:$compose_version"
```