# State Management
## What is state in jetpack compose?
- A state is an object it can hold our data.
- If data changes happen, it will update all its subscribed UI widgets.
- If you want to update the data at runtime in your widgets, you can use the state object.
## State<T>

- A type that holds a read-only value: It notifies the composition when value changes.

## MutableState<T>

- It's extension function of State. It allows us to update the value.
- When the value property is written to and changed, a recomposition of any subscribed
  RecomposeScopes will be scheduled.
- If value is written to with the same value, no recompositions will be scheduled.
- Example :

```
    var selectedIndex by mutableStateOf(0)
    // selectedIndex = 5
```

- You can define different type of data types and custom object as well

```
    val mutableStateOfString by mutableStateOf("")
    val mutableStateOfInt by mutableStateOf(0)
    val mutableStateOfBoolean by mutableStateOf(false)
    val mutableStateOfFloat by mutableStateOf(10.0f)
    val mutableStateOfLong by mutableStateOf(1222)
    val mutableStateOfDouble by mutableStateOf(111.0)
    val mutableStateOfObject by mutableStateOf<MyDataclass>(MyDataclass("name"))
```

## No State

- If we create the object without state, it doesn't update your UI when your data get changed.

```
@Composable
fun NoState() {
    var clickCount = 0
    Column {
        Button(onClick = {
            clickCount++
            Log.d("TAG", "NoState: "+clickCount)
            }) {
                Text(text = ""+clickCount+" times clicked")
        }
    }
}
```

## Why it doesn't update the UI?
- It just changes the value of the variable, but our UI needs to refresh.
- For auto UI refresh, we need state objects. 
- If we use a state object, our UI will get refreshed automatically when data gets changed. 
- Let's test the same code with the state object.
## With State Object:
- It works as expected. But it has some problems, if you use this state object with child composable it will not work. 
- When you use this code, Android studio will give a warning and it recommended using it along with remember.
```
@Composable
fun MutableStateClick() {
    var clickCount by mutableStateOf(0)//Not recommended
    Column {
        Button(onClick = { clickCount++ }) {
            Text(text = "" + clickCount + " times clicked")
        }
    }
}
```
## Remember:
- The remember keyword can store a mutable or an immutable object. 
- If value changes, it will trigger recomposition(refresh the UI) to update the widgets.
-Syntax:
```
    val currentValue = remember { mutableStateOf(0) } //Int
    val userName = remember { mutableStateOf("") } //String
```
- Example:
```
@Composable
fun RememberSample() {
    var clickCount by remember { mutableStateOf(0) }
        Column {
        Button(onClick = { clickCount++ }) {
            Text(text = "" + clickCount + " times clicked")
        }
    }
}
```

- Remember works with child composable also.
- You can pass as an argument to your child composable function.

## Drawback:
- If your device orientation gets changed, the value will reset.
- If you want to keep the data even if the activity recreated/orientation change happened, use "rememberSavable".

## Remember Saveable (Use if you want to save the UI state after screen orientation):

- Use rememberSaveable to restore your UI state after an activity or process is recreated.
- rememberSaveable retains state across recompositions.
- In addition, rememberSaveable also retains state across activity and process recreation.
- When the configuration changes, the default behavior is for the composable function to recompose
  from scratch, potentially losing the current state.
- To avoid this issue, you can use rememberSaveable to preserve and restore the state automatically.
```
@Composable
fun RememberSaveableSample() {
    var clickCount = rememberSaveable { mutableStateOf(0) }
        Column {
        Button(onClick = { clickCount.value++ }) {
            Text(text = "" + clickCount.value + " times clicked")
        }
    }
}
```

## remember vs mutableStateOf

- in mutableStateOf, we're not remembering the state, a mutableStateOf(1) will always be created
  AGAIN,
- so there will be a new instance of a state, but will still have the same value of 1.
- So the state seems to not change, but there IS a recomposition happening.

```
val state: MutableState<Int> = remember { mutableStateOf(1) }
Text(
   modifier = Modifier.clickable { state.value += 1 },
   text = "${state.value}",
 )
```

- In above, though we are remembering the state, if the composable function re compose again
- the state value will be saved and show the saved value.
